Apply Data analysis in network security
1. set the target
2. gather the evidence
3. understand the data
4. communicate to data
=============
1. set the target
correlation; proactive security solutions

2. gather the evidence
    Traditionally, proactive security solutions (Canetti et al., 1997; Barak et al., 1999) are designed to maintain the overall security of a system, even if individual components of the system have been compromised by an attack - PPDM
    scan detection - 
    prepare data;avoid data deceives, how/where to find the data; how to sample the data
    Cluster analysis is the practice of gathering up a bunch of objects and separating them into groups of similar objects.  k-means cluster data source.
The objective of using a supervised machinelearning algorithm is to obtain the highest classification accuracy. The most popular supervised machine-learning methods include artificial neural network (ANN), support vector machine (SVM), decision trees, Bayesian networks (BNs), k-nearest neighbor (KNN), and the hidden Markov model (HMM). Here we will use k-nearest neighbor approach.
The unsupervised machine-learning methods we will use is k-means clustering.Clustering is the assignment of objects into groups (called clusters) so that objects from the same cluster are more similar to each other than objects from different clusters. The sameness of the objects is usually determined by the distance between the objects over multiple dimensions of the data set. Clustering is widely used in various domains like bioinformatics, text mining, pattern recognition, and image analysis. Clustering is an approach of unsupervised learning where examples are unlabeled, i.e., they are not pre-classified.
k-Means clustering partitions the given data points X into k clusters, in which
each data point is more similar to its cluster centroid than to the other cluster centroids.
The k-means clustering algorithm generally consists of the steps described as follows:
Step 1. Select the k initial cluster centroids, c1, c2, c3 , ck.
Step 2. Assign each instance x in S to the cluster that has a centroid nearest to x.
Step 3. Recompute each clusters centroid based on which elements are contained in it.
Step 4. Repeat Steps 2 through 3 until convergence is achieved.


Reference: Naked statistics: stripping the dread from data 

3. understand the data
    One of the limitations underlining most of the rule-based approaches is that they treat each event as a separate activity without considering the context of the events.
    A rule relies on the signature of a packet based on a set of elements such as protocol.
    Because a subset of a packet tracking a malicious user and a signature of a normal user may be matched to activate the rule, rule-based misuse detection systems are known for false alarms. In a false alarm, an alarm may be raised after detecting an activity that may be part of an attack, whereas the activity is actually legitimate network traffic. One way to avoid this problem is to perform inference between rules using BN. This section focuses on BN classification and its application in misuse detection. using Bayesian statistics to specify the causal relationships between subsets of variables.

Trying to identify weird versus normal is a core concept within statistics, and The p-value has a very specific (and difficult to remember) meaning. In order to define and calculate a p-value, you begin with a statement (technically called a null hypothesis) and calculate the probability of the data being generated by chance if the statement is truethis is the p-value.

4. communicate to data
    transform security to more specific and measurable 
